README.md, before:

# obs-v4l2sink

An [OBS Studio][obs-proj] plugin that provides output capabilities to a
Video4Linux2 device. It is basically a Linux version of [obs-virtual-cam][vcam],
but only contains the video sink part. You can use it with
[v4l2loopback][v4l2loopback] to achieve cross-program video transfer between OBS
Studio and third party software supporting Video4Linux2, e.g. to present an OBS
session in proprietary browser-based conferencing systems by selecting the OBS
session as a webcam.

The idea for this plugin originated from the discussions around [obs-virtual-cam
issue #17][vcam#17].

[obs-proj]: https://obsproject.com/
[vcam]: https://github.com/CatxFish/obs-virtual-cam
[v4l2loopback]: https://github.com/umlaeute/v4l2loopback
[vcam#17]: https://github.com/CatxFish/obs-virtual-cam/issues/17

## Usage with v4l2loopback

- Make sure to [load the v4l2loopback module][run-v4l2loopback] and check the Device Path.
  - If using Chrome or Chromium you must use the option `exclusive_caps=1`.
- Open OBS and select the menu entry `Tools > V4L2 Video Output`.
- Fill in the Device Path and select the appropriate video format.
- Click the `Start` button.

![Property Window](docs/property-window.png)

[run-v4l2loopback]: https://github.com/umlaeute/v4l2loopback#run

## Build

- Install QT

```
sudo apt install qtbase5-dev
```

- Get obs-studio source code

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio.git
```

- Build plugins

```
git clone https://github.com/CatxFish/obs-v4l2sink.git
cd obs-v4l2sink
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DLIBOBS_INCLUDE_DIR="../../obs-studio/libobs" -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr ..
make -j4
sudo make install
```

Commit message:

docs(README): add libobs-dev dep and mention flatpak

README.md, after:

# obs-v4l2sink

An [OBS Studio][obs-proj] plugin that provides output capabilities to a
Video4Linux2 device. It is basically a Linux version of [obs-virtual-cam][vcam],
but only contains the video sink part. You can use it with
[v4l2loopback][v4l2loopback] to achieve cross-program video transfer between OBS
Studio and third party software supporting Video4Linux2, e.g. to present an OBS
session in proprietary browser-based conferencing systems by selecting the OBS
session as a webcam.

The idea for this plugin originated from the discussions around [obs-virtual-cam
issue #17][vcam#17].

[obs-proj]: https://obsproject.com/
[vcam]: https://github.com/CatxFish/obs-virtual-cam
[v4l2loopback]: https://github.com/umlaeute/v4l2loopback
[vcam#17]: https://github.com/CatxFish/obs-virtual-cam/issues/17

## Usage with v4l2loopback

- Make sure to [load the v4l2loopback module][run-v4l2loopback] and check the Device Path.
  - If using Chrome or Chromium you must use the option `exclusive_caps=1`.
- Open OBS and select the menu entry `Tools > V4L2 Video Output`.
- Fill in the Device Path and select the appropriate video format.
- Click the `Start` button.

![Property Window](docs/property-window.png)

[run-v4l2loopback]: https://github.com/umlaeute/v4l2loopback#run

## Build

- Install deps

```
sudo apt install qtbase5-dev libobs-dev
```

- Get obs-studio source code

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio.git
```

- Build plugins

```
git clone https://github.com/CatxFish/obs-v4l2sink.git
cd obs-v4l2sink
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DLIBOBS_INCLUDE_DIR="../../obs-studio/libobs" -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr ..
make -j4
sudo make install
```

Then, for PopOS, with OBS installed using flatpak, you need to copy the
resulting .so to the flatpak location and fix the symlink for flatpak.
